blueprint.cfg(5) -- centralized blueprint service configuration
===============================================================

## SYNOPSIS

	[io]
	server = https://devstructure.com
	secret = 0123456789ABCDEFGHIJKLMNOPQRSTUVWXYZabcdefghijklmnopqrstuvwxyz_-

## DESCRIPTION

`/etc/blueprint.cfg` or `~/.blueprint.cfg` allow customizing the configuration of Blueprint and Blueprint I/O.  Blueprint I/O will prompt you with snippets that can be used in these files when you perform pushes and pulls for the first time.

The file is INI-style and divided into sections, of which there is only one, currently.

### [io]

* `max_content_length`:
  The maximal `Content-Length` to allow on the server.  Defaults to 64 MB.
* `secret`:
  The 64-byte secret key used for all `blueprint-push`(1) calls and `blueprint-pull`(1) calls that don't specify a full URL.
* `server`:
  The Blueprint I/O Server that receives push and pull calls.  `https://devstructure.com` by default.

### [s3]

* `access_key`:
  An AWS access key.
* `bucket`:
  The name of an existing bucket to be used for blueprints.
* `region`:
  The region that contains the `bucket`.  `US` by default.
* `secret_key`:
  An AWS secret key that matches the `access_key`.

### [librato]

* `token`:
  A Librato API token.
* `username`:
  A Librato API username (which is typically an email address).

### [statsd]

* `host`:
  The hostname or IP address of a StatsD instance.
* `port`:
  The port of a StatsD instance.  Defaults to `8125`.

## FILES

* `/etc/blueprint.cfg`, `~/.blueprint.cfg`:
  Optional INI-style configuration files.

## THEME SONG

Girl Talk - "Let It Out"

## AUTHOR

* Matt Tanase <matt@devstructure.com>
* Richard Crowley <richard@devstructure.com>

## SEE ALSO

Part of `blueprint`(1).
