blueprint-template(7) -- built-in template data
===============================================

## SYNOPSIS

	{{FQDN}}

## DESCRIPTION

Blueprint provides basic data about the local system for use in rendering templates of files.

### uname(1) properties

* `ARCH`:
  The system's hardware architecture.  Probably "i386" or "x86_64".
* `KERNEL`:
  The kernel name.  This is always "Linux" on systems Blueprint supports.
* `KERNEL_RELEASE`:
  The kernel release.

### System properties from `/proc`

* `CORES`:
  The number of cores in the system.  The semantics of this value when read in a virtualized environment are undefined.
* `MEM`:
  The total amount of memory in the system in bytes.

### Network properties

* `DNSDOMAINNAME`:
  The DNS domain name according to `dnsdomainname`(1).
* `EACH_IP`:
  Each IPv4 address assigned to an interface, one per line.
* `EACH_IPv6`:
  Each IPv6 address assigned to an interface, one per line.
* `FQDN`:
  The fully-qualified domain name according to `hostname`(1)'s `--fqdn` option.
* `HOSTNAME`:
  The hostname according to `hostname`(1).
* `IPv6`:
  The first IPv6 address assigned to any interface.
* `PRIVATE_IP`:
  The first private IPv4 address assigned to any interface.
* `PUBLIC_IP`:
  The first public IPv4 address assigned to any interface.

### LSB properties

* `DISTRO`:
  The distro name.
* `RELEASE`:
  The operating system release codename.

## THEME SONG

The Flaming Lips - "The W.A.N.D. (The Will Always Negates Defeat)"

## AUTHOR

Richard Crowley <richard@devstructure.com>

## SEE ALSO

Part of `blueprint`(1).

`mustache`(5) at <http://mustache.github.com/mustache.5.html> and `mustache.sh` at <https://github.com/rcrowley/mustache.sh>.
