blueprint-pull(1) -- pull a blueprint from the Internet
=======================================================

## SYNOPSIS

`blueprint pull` [`-m` _message_] [`-q`] _url_  

With server and secret configured:

`blueprint pull` [`-m` _message_] [`-q`] _name_  

## DESCRIPTION

`blueprint-pull` fetches a blueprint and all associated tarballs from the configured server (which is `https://devstructure.com` by default) and stores them in the local repository as _name_ or the final component of _url_.

If _name_ is given, the _secret_ must be configured in `/etc/blueprint.cfg` or `~/.blueprint.cfg`.  See `EXAMPLES` below.

If _url_ is given, it must be a fully-qualified HTTP or HTTPS URL of the form _server_/_secret_/_name_.

DevStructure provides a free Blueprint I/O Server at <https://devstructure.com>, which stores blueprints in Amazon S3.  Alternatively, you can supply your own backend server.

## OPTIONS

* `-m` _message_, `--message=`_message_:
  Commit message.
* `-q`, `--quiet`:
  Operate quietly.
* `-h`, `--help`:
  Show a help message.

## FILES

* `~/.blueprints.git`:
  The local repsitory where blueprints are stored, each on its own branch.
* `/etc/blueprint.cfg`, `~/.blueprint.cfg`:
  Optional INI-style configuration files.  See `blueprint.cfg`(5).

## EXAMPLES

Example `~/.blueprint.cfg`:

	[io]
	server = https://devstructure.com
	secret = 0123456789ABCDEFGHIJKLMNOPQRSTUVWXYZabcdefghijklmnopqrstuvwxyz_-

The _server_ in this case specifies the default and may be omitted.

## THEME SONG

Girl Talk - "Let It Out"

## AUTHOR

* Matt Tanase <matt@devstructure.com>
* Richard Crowley <richard@devstructure.com>

## SEE ALSO

Part of `blueprint`(1).
