blueprint-template(1) -- render mustache.sh templates locally
=============================================================

## SYNOPSIS

`blueprint template` [`-q`] [_pathname_]  

## DESCRIPTION

`blueprint-template` renders the template for the given _pathname_ using the `mustache.sh` template rendering engine.  The template for _pathname_ must be stored in _pathname_`.blueprint-template.mustache`.  Data meant only for _pathname_ may be stored in _pathname_`.blueprint-template.sh`, a `source`-able POSIX shell script.

Data meant for all templates may be stored in files ending in `.sh` in `/etc/blueprint-template.d`, again as `source`-able POSIX shell scripts.  Blueprint comes with a selection of suitable data, see `blueprint-template`(7).

This program is meant for use during development and testing of templates; `blueprint-apply`(1) and `blueprint-show`(1) take care of rendering templates automatically.

Templates may make use of the following syntax:

	{{VARIABLE}}

`VARIABLE` is read from the environment and substituted directly.

	{{#VARIABLE}}...{{/VARIABLE}}

The intervening `...` is substituted for the entire tag if `VARIABLE` is in the environmente and is non-empty.  Other tags may be nested within.

	{{^VARIABLE}}...{{/VARIABLE}}

The opposite of `#` sections: the intervening `...` is substituted for the entire tag if `VARIABLE` is not in the environmente or is empty.  Other tags may be nested within.

	{{!COMMENT}}

The tag is removed unconditionally.  Comments do not appear in the rendered output.

	{{`COMMAND`}}

`COMMAND` is executed and anything written to standard output is substituted directly.

	{{#`COMMAND`}}...{{/`COMMAND`}}

`COMMAND` is executed and `...` is rendered once for each line written to standard output.  The environment is unchanged from line-to-line except for the value of `_M_LINE`, which contains each successive line of standard output.

## OPTIONS

* `-q`, `--quiet`:
  Operate quietly.
* `-h`, `--help`:
  Show a help message.

## FILES

* `/etc/blueprint-template.d`:
  `source`-able POSIX shell scripts ending in `.sh` that set environment variables for use in templates.

## THEME SONG

The Flaming Lips - "The W.A.N.D. (The Will Always Negates Defeat)"

## AUTHOR

Richard Crowley <richard@devstructure.com>

## SEE ALSO

Part of `blueprint`(1).

`blueprint-template`(7) for built-in template data.

`mustache`(5) at <http://mustache.github.com/mustache.5.html> and `mustache.sh` at <https://github.com/rcrowley/mustache.sh>.
