blueprint-show(1) -- generate code from a blueprint
===================================================

## SYNOPSIS

`blueprint show` [`-P`|`-C`|`-S`|...] [`-r`] [`-q`] [_name_]  

## DESCRIPTION

`blueprint-show` generates code from the blueprint _name_ as a Puppet module, a Chef cookbook, POSIX shell code, or an AWS CloudFormation template as indicated by the `--puppet`, `--chef`, `--bcfg2`, `--sh`, or `--cfn` option.  The generated code will be written to a file or directory in the current working directory and its name will be printed to standard output.

If none of `--puppet`, `--chef`, `--bcfg2`, `--sh`, or `--cfn` are given, the raw JSON data structure that describes the blueprint is printed as described in `blueprint`(5).

The POSIX shell code generator is the only one prepared to handle files to be rendered from a template.  All other code generators will print a warning and ignore such files.

If _name_ is omitted or `-`, a blueprint is read from standard input and treated in the same manner.  See `blueprint`(5) for the details of the format.

## OPTIONS

* `-P`, `--puppet`:
  Generate a Puppet module.
* `-C`, `--chef`:
  Generate a Chef cookbook.
* `-B`, `--bcfg2`:
  Generate bcfg2 configuration.
* `-S`, `--sh`:
  Generate POSIX shell code.
* `--cfn`:
  Generate an AWS CloudFormation template.
* `-r`, `--relaxed`:
  Relax version constraints in generated code.
* `-q`, `--quiet`:
  Operate quietly.
* `-h`, `--help`:
  Show a help message.

## FILES

* `~/.blueprints.git`:
  The local repsitory where blueprints are stored, each on its own branch.
* `/etc/blueprintignore`, `~/.blueprintignore`:
  Lists of filename patterns to be ignored when creating blueprints.  See `blueprintignore`(5).

## THEME SONG

The Flaming Lips - "The W.A.N.D. (The Will Always Negates Defeat)"

## AUTHOR

Richard Crowley <richard@devstructure.com>

## SEE ALSO

Part of `blueprint`(1).
