blueprint-push(1) -- push a blueprint to the Internet
=====================================================

## SYNOPSIS

`blueprint push` [`-q`] _name_  

## DESCRIPTION

`blueprint-push` stores the blueprint _name_ and all associated tarballs as _name_ on the configured server (which is `https://devstructure.com` by default) and prints the URL from which it may be fetched.

If _name_ does not exist and standard input is not a TTY, a blueprint is read from standard input.  See `blueprint`(5) for the details of the format.

If no _secret_ is configured in `/etc/blueprint.cfg` or `~/.blueprint.cfg`, one is created and a sample configuration is printed.

DevStructure provides a free Blueprint I/O Server at <https://devstructure.com>, which stores blueprints in Amazon S3.  Alternatively, you can supply your own backend server.

## OPTIONS

* `-q`, `--quiet`:
  Operate quietly.
* `-h`, `--help`:
  Show a help message.

## FILES

* `~/.blueprints.git`:
  The local repsitory where blueprints are stored, each on its own branch.
* `/etc/blueprint.cfg`, `~/.blueprint.cfg`:
  Optional INI-style configuration files.  See `blueprint.cfg`(5).

## EXAMPLES

Example `~/.blueprint.cfg`:

	[io]
	server = https://devstructure.com
	secret = 0123456789ABCDEFGHIJKLMNOPQRSTUVWXYZabcdefghijklmnopqrstuvwxyz_-

The _server_ in this case specifies the default and may be omitted.

## THEME SONG

Girl Talk - "Let It Out"

## AUTHOR

* Matt Tanase <matt@devstructure.com>
* Richard Crowley <richard@devstructure.com>

## SEE ALSO

Part of `blueprint`(1).
